README(0)                        Local Manual                        README(0)

NAME
     xssstart — run a command when X screen saver activates
     xsssuspend — suspend X screen saver

BSD                             30 January 2022                            BSD
XSSSTART(1)                      Local Manual                      XSSSTART(1)

NAME
     xssstart — run a command when X screen saver activates

SYNOPSIS
     xssstart command [argument ...]

DESCRIPTION
     xssstart runs the specified command on XScreenSaver(3) ScreenSaverOn
     events.  As long as the command is running, further events are ignored.

EXAMPLES
     xssstart xlock -mode blank &
             Starts xssstart in the background, running xlock(1) in blank mode
             when the screen saver activates.

     xset s 600
             Sets the screen saver parameters to activate after 600 seconds of
             inactivity.

     xset s activate
             Activates the screen saver immediately.

SEE ALSO
     slock(1), xautolock(1), xlock(1), xset(1), xss(1), xssstate(1)

AUTHORS
     Vadim Vygonets <vadik@vygo.net>

BSD                              26 July 2016                              BSD
XSSSUSPEND(1)                    Local Manual                    XSSSUSPEND(1)

NAME
     xsssuspend — suspend X screen saver

SYNOPSIS
     xsssuspend [command [argument ...]]

DESCRIPTION
     xsssuspend suspends the X screen saver and DPMS timer for the duration of
     its runtime.  After it terminates for any reason or is disconnected from
     the X server, the timers are restarted, unless suspended by another
     client.

     xsssuspend shuts down the X server connection and exits with status 0 if
     it receives the SIGTERM (termination) signal.  If no command is given,
     SIGINT (keyboard interrupt, normally Control-C) is handled in the same
     manner.

     If a command is given, xsssuspend runs the command and exits after it's
     finished, or immediately if execution fails.  SIGINT is ignored in this
     mode, delegating its handling to the child process.

     If initialisation fails, xsssuspend exits immediately.  It wakes up once
     per hour to check its connection to the X server, and exits on any X er‐
     ror.

EXAMPLES
     xsssuspend telnet towel.blinkenlights.nl
             Watch Star Wars in the terminal, suspending the screen saver for
             the duration of the film.

DIAGNOSTICS
     If xsssuspend exits as the result of the command child process exiting,
     its exit status will be that of the child process.  Otherwise it will
     exit with one of the following values:

     0       xsssuspend was killed by SIGINT or SIGTERM.

     125     An X11 error occurred after initialisation.

     126     The command was found, but could not be invoked.

     127     The command was not found, or another error occurred during ini‐
             tialisation.

     >128    The child process was terminated by a signal.  The exit status is
             128 plus the signal number.

SEE ALSO
     XScreenSaverSuspend(3), xset(1)

AUTHORS
     Vadim Vygonets <vadik@vygo.net>

BSD                             8 January 2024                             BSD
